SCENE &mdash; BROOKE'S

When the new Parliament was young,
Not yet a maiden speech was sung,
The Party in St. James's-street
Throng'd at BROOKE'S lov'd retreat,
Prognosticating, boasting, prating,
Doubting, discussing, and debating,
By turns they felt their anxious mind
Disturbed, a leader fit to find;
Till once, 'tis said, when all were fir'd,
Fill'd with fury, rapt, inspir'd,
From the attending waiters-round,
They snatch'd their instruments of sound,
And, as they oft had ta'en a-part,
Dear lessons of the dice's art,
All, to throw a main, agreed
To settle who the Band should lead.

First BROUGHAM, his hand, its skill to try,
Upon the box, bewildered, laid,
And back recoil'd, he knew not why,
Ev'n at the sound himself had made.

MACDONALD next, with furious look,
Develop'd his ambitious stings;
In one rude clash the box he shook,
And crabs, with hurried hand, he flings.

With anxious visage DOUGLAS next
Advanc'd, and as the Dice he eyes,
Spoke a mixt Greek and English text,
Then threw, and lost the wished-for prize.

But thou!  Sir ROBERT WILSON, Knight,
What was thy heroic measure?
Still it whisper'd promis'd pleasure;
And bade the Grand Cross Bath at distance hail.

The pass of Banos does his strain prolong,
And from the rocks, the woods, the vale,
The pass of Banos echoes thro' his song.
But when this oft repeated theme he chose,
A hoarse responsive voice was heard at every close,
And all his dreams of glory vanish'd into air.

Yet longer had he sung &mdash; but with a frown
The Quarterly Reviewer angry rose,
He threw his gall-dipp'd pen in thunder down,
And with a withering look,
The war denouncing trumpet took,
And blew a blast so loud and dread,
Were to the Knight ne'er sounds so full of woe;
And, ever and anon, he beat,
The Knight's despatch, with furious heat;
And tho' sometimes, each pause between,
The Northern Critic at his side
His Caledonian voice apply'd,
Yet still he kept his fear-inspiring mien,
And poor Sir ROBERT'S brains seem'd bursting from his head.

Thy speeches, LAMBTON, were to nothing fix'd;
Dull, yet not deep, and pert, yet never gay,
Of diff'ring themes the veering song was mix'd,
And now he call'd on COBBETT, now on GRAY.

With eyes uprais'd, but not like one inspired,
Pale DUDLEY NORTH remained retired,
And from his solitary seat
Made not one speech the band to greet,
But ever and anon a glance would steal,
And chuckled o'er some joke which he would not reveal.

But, oh!  how alter'd was the tone,
When GORDON christen'd ROBERT, but by some
Known by the ruder epithet of b&mdash;
Blew a tremendous blast that BROOKE'S chambers rung,
The blast to all the party too well known.

FINLAY and MADDOCKS next in order stood,
MOORE, and WILL. SMITH, and WAITHMAN and MAT. WOOD;
All vainly to the mystic table crowd,
While chicken TAYLOR leap'd and crow'd aloud.

Last came TIERNEY'S anxious trial,
He, with downcast look, advancing;
Ere to the box his hand addrest,
He cast a look around and saw them shy all,
As if they cou'd not trust his cunning crest!
They wou'd have thought who heard his strain
They aw i' th' Opposition ranks a wight,
Who only with them staid in spite,
And long'd with th' other party to be dancing.

While as his flying fingers shook the dice,
His limbs all trembled, troubled was his air,
But MERC'RY fram'd with Chance a spell of pow'r,
The box he rattled in a lucky hour;
"Seven is the main! &mdash; I've nick'd it in a trice,
And thus to me belongs the Leader's chair."

[unpaginated]
</p>

</div>



