I.
'Twas at the solemn Feast, for Laurels won,
By WILLIAM, old JOHN SHAKESPEARE'S Son,
Aloft in awful State,
The May'r of STRATFORD sate,
Rais'd on a wool-pack'd Throne:
His Aldermen were plac'd around,
Their Brows with spreading Antlers crow'd,
(So City Spouses should be found)
The lovely May'ress by his Side
Sat like a plump High-German Bride,
Not less for Fat renown'd, than Pride.
Happy, happy, happy May'r!
None but the Fat,
None but the Fat,
None but the Fat deserve the bouncing Fair.

II.
The Bard of FERNEY plac'd on high
Amid the tuneful Quire,
With flying Fingers touch'd the Wooden Lyre:
The Notes, tho' lame, ascend as high
As civic Joys require.
The Song began from G&mdash;K'S Toil,
Who left his LITCHFIELD'S native Soil,
(Such were his Hopes of Golden Spoil)
King RICHARD'S crooked Form bely'd the Man:
Sublime on high-heel'd Shoes he trod,
When first he courted Lady ANNE
In GOODMAN'S FIELDS, till then an unfrequented Road.
As HASTINGS next round PRITCHARD'S Waist he curl'd,
Or shew'd, in DRUGGER'S Rags, an Ideot to the World.
The list'ning Crowd admire the lofty Sound,
A present SHAKESPEARE, loud they shout around:
A present SHAKESPEARE, loud the rafter'd Halls rebound.
With prick'd up Ears
His May'rship hears;
Assumes the Play'r,
Affects to stare,
And shake the Room about his Ears.

III.
The praise of Ven'son, then, the rapt Enthusiast sung;
Of Ven'son, whether old or young:
The jolly Haunch in Triumph comes;
Sound the Trumpets; beat the drums;
Flush'd with a Purple Grace,
It shews its Currant-Jelly Face:
Now give each Feeder Breath:  It comes, it comes;
Ven'son, ever fair and young,
Drinking Joys can best reveal;
Fat of Ven'son is a Treasure,
Eating is the Glutton's Pleasure:
Rich the Treasure,
Sweet the Pleasure,
Sweet as Stuffing is with Veal.

IV.
Sooth'd with the Sound, the May'r grew vain;
Eat all his Custards o'er again;
And thrice he pick'd the Bones of Geese and Turkies slain.
The Poet saw his Stomach rise,
His watring Mouth, his longing Eyes;
And while he Necks and Sides defy'd,
Chang'd his Note, and check'd his Pride.
He chose a TYBURN Muse
Soft Pity to infuse:
He sung the Deer-Stealer's untimely Fate
By Law severe, tho' good,
Swinging, swinging, swinging, swinging,
Swinging in too high a State,
For spilling Sylvan Blood.
Deserted at his utmost Need
By those his former Thefts had fed,
Expos'd, ev'n near his native Town,
With not a Friend to cut him down.
With joyless Looks the May'r dejected sate,
Tho' still revolving in his Soul
The various Turns of Spits below;
And now and then a backward Sigh he stole,
While Streams of Pactolian sought their Vent, to flow.

V.
The Bard of FERNEY smil'd to see
That Sleep was in the next Degree:
'Twas but a drowsy Strain to keep,
For Nurses talk their Babes asleep.
Gently dull, in hum-drum Numbers,
Thus he sooth'd his Soul to Slumbers;
Picking Bones is Toil and Trouble,
Sillabub an empty Bubble;
Never ending, still beginning,
Eating, still the Substance missing:
Think, if Fat be worth thy winning,
Thy Wife is surely worth the kissing:
Both Wife and Ven'son see besides thee!
Take what Fate, thy Cook provides thee!
The Many rend the Skies with loud Applause;
So Sleep was crown'd, tho' FERNEY won the Cause.
The May'r, scarce able to keep ope his Eyes,
Peep'd at the Food
That warm'd his Blood,
And lick'd his Lips, and lick'd his Lips,
And lick'd his Lips, (to stir in vain he tries:)
At length, as sunk in Sleep's soft Arms he stretches,
The snorting Magistrate b&mdash;t his Breeches.

VI.
Now strike the Salt-box once again:
A louder yet, and yet a louder Strain:&mdash;
Break the Bands of Sleep asunder
With Noise more frequent than his Postern Thunder!
Hark!  hark!  the horrid Sound
Has rais'd up his Head,
Tho' heavy as Lead,
And he stares and stinks around!
Revenge, Revenge, dread FERNEY cries,
See the Critics arise!
See the Volumes they rear
Only fit to curl Hair,
Tho' each hop'd for an Editor's Prize!
Behold the snarling Band,
Each with a Farthing Candle in his hand!
Those are critical Ghosts who for SHAKESPEARE were slain,
And unburied remain
On Stalls in Clare-court, Drury-lane.
Give the Fun'rals Due
To the wretched Crew!
Behold how they toss their Noses on high!
Bid them seek Cloacina's Abode,
Congenial Temples for such hostile Gods!
The Company, pleas'd such Expedient was hit on,
The May'r snatch'd up CAPEL'S Edition to sh&mdash;t on;
His Wife the Door unbarr'd,
To light him to the Yard,
As H&mdash;l&mdash;y held the Link that sing'd the fam'd North Briton.
Let G&mdash;K yield our May'r the Prize,
Or both divide the Crown:
This, rais'd an Author to the Skies;
That, threw his Critics down.
